---
layout: post
title: "Project Proposal: Lambda++"
date: Thu Apr  2 13:01:12 EDT 2015
---

__Note__: Name subject to change :P

Replace me with a description/intro.

# Summary

We will build a parallel sequence library for C++ with support for operations like map, reduce, and scan (which take higher order functions). Our library will automatically detect hardware configurations and adapt its performance.


# Background

Writing parallel programs is difficult. Challenges such as intelligently assigning work to nodes and minimizing communication costs makes it impossible for the average programmer to write good parallel applications.  Programmers need libraries that enable easy development of parallel applications - libraries that are general and fast. The problem with most libraries is that they don’t adapt to hardware configurations, which leads to poor performance.0

We will build a parallel sequence library for C++ to solve this problem. Our library will operations such as creating new sequences, mapping a function onto sequences, reducing combiners over sequences (eg. adding elements). Support for higher order functions using C++11 lambda functions is key to the versatility of this library. The functions in this library are very general - they can be used to solve problems from sorting to writing a breadth first search.

This platform will be implemented in MPI, because MPI gives us control over communication between nodes. We focus on large scale parallel applications - programs that run across multiple computers. We will build configuration scripts to estimate the topology of the network (so we don’t send data across nodes that are far away), and communication costs (larger communication costs means that you’d want less of a dynamic assignment). This enables high performance across hardware configurations.


# Challenges

The first challenge is designing a good API. Exposing cluster-level parallelism to a sequential program requires a strong understanding of the types of parallel programs people would use this API for. We will also need to learn about C++11 features such as lambda functions, and how to create a library that seamlessly works on different platforms with minimal setup costs.

Ensuring our application performs well, especially across different hardware configurations, is a huge challenge. For example, higher order function used in map might not take the same amount of time on all inputs. A naive static assignment can be particularly bad in certain use cases (like in computing the Mandelbrot set). The chunk size in a dynamic scheme will very likely need to be varied based on the type of cluster used (large chunk sizes would work better if communication costs are high). Effectively characterizing cluster properties requires an intimate understand of parallel architecture.


# Resources

We would like access to Amazon EC2 clusters if possible. Besides that, we will use Blacklight for testing.


# Goals & Deliverables




# Platform Choice




# Schedule

